well thousands of people are gathering
in southern turkia to protest against
America's support for Israel the
demonstrations taking place in the city
of AD the location of one of NATO's
largest air bases in the region the US
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin is
due to attend talks with turkey as
foreign minister in the capital Anora on
Monday well for more on this wrestle s
joins us from Anora and wrestle what can
we expect from blinken's visit there
later
today
well uh the the US Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin is expected to arrive in
Ankara tonight and tomorrow in the
morning he's also scheduled to meet his
Turkish counterpart hakan fidan however
there is a huge discontent here in
Ankara just recently we have seen that
President erdogan increasingly started
to use a very harsh language accusing
USA accusing Israel of committing the
the the the the war crimes and president
ardan explicitly said that the USA is
complicit here is just giving a green
light to to to Israel to commit all of
that war crimes and violate the
international law and just after this
kind of language that has been used
yesterday we just seen that turkey has
recalled its Ambassador for consultation
so just days before the the October 7th
president erdogan and prime minister of
Israel were expected to meet so the
relations were just recently restored
and the the the the the The Diplomatic
ties were recently restored however now
the relations between Anar and T Aviv
between turkey and Israel are almost
about to break down so tomorrow there
will be a meeting between United the the
Secretary of State anony blinkin and the
Turkish uh the Turkish foreign minister
however according to the reports that
are coming there's not going to be a
joint pressure and that is quite
important we do not know whether this
came from Turks or the American
authorities but in anyway if there was a
a joint pressure it was expected to be a
huge uh public rebuke for uh Secretary
of State and that's why probably they
wanted to avoid it because as I said
there's a huge discontent here in Ankara
and just speaking of that discontent
Russell can you just tell us how large
this protest has become at the NATO
Airbase
there as of now we know that all across
turkey there have been thousands of the
cars joining a convoy that is organized
by International humanitarian relief
foundation and now they are still
heading to the South the city of Adana
which host inck Air Base so inck air
base is one of the largest NATO bases in
the Middle East and is primarily used by
the US Air Force and it also host more
than 1,000 US Air man so it's a b
calculated Place symbolically very much
important just yesterday president of
the foundation said that they are going
to Pro protest in front of that air base
to force the USA for a ceasefire and
also to stop the ongoing Slaughter in
Gaza so that is very very much important
as I said because the organizer as I
said is the international humanitarian
relief this same Foundation was the
foundation that organized Gaza Freedom
flotilla in 2010 in an intention to
break the Israeli sea blockade over Gaza
six wessels by that time sailed from
Istanbul and had over Gaza and in
international waters Israeli uh forces
raided onto that on on that ships and
killed 10 American and Turkish activists
and that has been a turning point in
Israeli and Turkish relations we have
seen a decade of very very deteriorated
relations so now interestingly the the
the president of Foundation is even
going further he said that they are
planning to send another uh flotilla to
Gaza but he's asking president uan this
time the Turkish Naval forces to be
involved and to protect that vessels
whether that's going to happen or not
however as I said here the organizers
are trying to put a tremendous pressure
on both American and Turkish governments
to stop the war in Gaza okay thank you
so much for that wristle that is wristle
c for us in Ankara